docs/achievements.md, before:

# Adding Achievements to Your Game

## The `achievements.lua` Module

This module is responsible for tracking and saving achievement progress for your game. It can be used as a standalone library, or in congruence with [toasts.lua](./toasts.md) and/or [viewer.lua](./viewer.md)

> NOTE: This is a reference implementation. You may use it as-is, or you may implement achievements in whatever manner you prefer as long as you save your data in `/Shared/Achievements/` according to the [schema](../achievements.schema.json).

## Getting Started

To import the main library, include `achievements.lua` in your project and import it in `main.lua`. This will create a global variable named `achievements` containing the module. Initialize the module with your achievement data (see [Configuring Achievements](#configuring-achievements)) before calling any of its other methods.

```lua
-- during setup
import "./path/to/achievements" -- don’t include ".lua" in your import statement
achievements.initialize(data) -- define your available achievements
```

You can then grant or update progress toward your achievements during gameplay.

```lua
-- during gameplay
achievements.grant("my_basic_achievement") -- grant or revoke achievements as you wish
achievements.advance("my_progress_achievement", 4) -- add 4 to your achievement’s progress, granting automagically if progress completes
```

Be sure to save your achievements to disk so the player’s progress persists. You can do this whenever you save your game, or any time you grant, advance, or revoke an achievement.

```lua
achievements.save() -- write your achievements to /Shared
```

If you prefer to autosave any time achievement data is updated, you can also set `achievements.forceSaveOnGrantOrRevoke` to `true` after initialization.

## Configuring Achievements

The most important part of configuring your achievements is properly constructing the achievement data blob and calling `achievements.initialize()` to properly set your game up. Calling `.initialize()` during your game’s setup will ensure that the library is ready for use from within your game. It will not overwrite or reset previously saved achievement data.

### Example

```lua
local data = {
    -- This example infers most of the game metadata from your game’s pdxinfo.
    iconPath = "images/achievements/game_icon", -- Update these paths to match your game’s file structure. See below for more details.
    cardPath = "images/achievements/game_card",
    achievements = {
        {
            -- these are the only required fields for a basic achievement.
            id = "my_achievement_1",
            name = "Achievement 1",
            description = "Achievement 1 Description",
        },
        {
            id = "my_achievement_2",
            name = "Achievement 2",
            description = "Achievement 2 Description",
            icon = "assets/achievements/icons/my_achievement_2_icon", -- Update this path to match your game’s file structure. See below for more details.
            iconLocked = "assets/achievements/icons/my_locked_icon_2"
        },
        {
            id = "my_progress_achievement",
            name = "My Progress Achievement",
            description = "My Progress Achievement description",
            progressMax = 350,
            progressIsPercentage = false
        },
        {
            id = "my_secret_achievement",
            name = "My Secret Achievement",
            description = "My Secret Achievement description",
            isSecret = true,
            scoreValue = 0 -- don’t count this achievement towards game completion
        },
        {
            -- continue defining achievements as much as you need
        }
    }
}

-- very important that you initialize the data blob before your game is set up.
achievements.initialize(data)
achievements.forceSaveOnGrantOrRevoke = true -- Defaults to false. Only set if you’d like the achievement data to be exported every time an achievement is granted or revoked.
```

### Schema

#### Achievements

| key            | type                    | description                                                                                                                                         |
| -------------- | ----------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `achievements` | `list: AchievementData` | List of configured achievements for your game. **Required.**                                                                                        |
| `gameID`       | `string?`               | Bundle identifier for your game. Defaults to `bundleID` from your `pdxinfo`.                                                                        |
| `name`         | `string?`               | Nicely formatted name for your game. Defaults to `name` from your `pdxinfo`.                                                                        |
| `author`       | `string?`               | Nicely formatted author for your game. Defaults to `author` from your `pdxinfo`.                                                                    |
| `description`  | `string?`               | Short description about your game. Defaults to `description` from your `pdxinfo`.                                                                   |
| `version`      | `string?`               | Nicely formatted version string for your game. Defaults to `version` from your `pdxinfo`.                                                           |
| `iconPath`     | `string?`               | Path to the 32x32 `.png` icon to use as your game’s icon. Recommended to use your `icon.png` from your game metadata. Defaults to `nil`.            |
| `cardPath`     | `string?`               | Path to the 380x90 `.png` art to use as your game’s card art. Recommended to use your wide Catalog image asset (if you have it). Defaults to `nil`. |

#### AchievementData

| key                    | type      | description                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| ---------------------- | --------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `id`                   | `string`  | Uniquely identifies the achievement. **Required.**                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `name`                 | `string`  | Nicely formatted name for the achievement. Shown to the player. **Required.**                                                                                                                                               |
| `description`          | `string`  | Nicely formatted description for the achievement. Shown to the player. **Required.**                                                                                                                                        |
| `descriptionLocked`    | `string?` | Nicely formatted description for the achievement shown until it is granted. Shown to the player. Defaults to `nil`. When left `nil`, the value provided for `description` will be shown in both locked and unlocked states. |
| `isSecret`             | `bool?`   | Determines if the achievement should be hidden until granted. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                          |
| `icon`                 | `string?` | Path to the achievement’s 32x32 `.png` icon. The root folder is where "main.lua" is. Defaults to `nil`.                                                                                                                     |
| `iconLocked`           | `string?` | Path to the achievement’s 32x32 `.png` icon that’s shown until the achievement is granted. Defaults to `nil`.                                                                                                               |
| `progressMax`          | `number?` | If this achievement is progression based, this defines the limit at which the achievement will be automatically granted. Defaults to `nil`.                                                                                 |
| `progress`             | `number?` | How much progress has been made towards `progressMax`. Not necessary to set this by hand; instead, use `advance` or `advanceTo`. Defaults to `0`.                                                                           |
| `progressIsPercentage` | `bool?`   | Indicates whether this progress achievement represents a percentage. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                   |
| `scoreValue`           | `number?` | How much weight this achievement carries towards 100% game completion. Defaults to `1`. Can be set to `0` to make the achievement optional.                                                                                 |

## API Reference

### Properties

#### `bool` achievements.forceSaveOnGrantOrRevoke

If this flag is set to `true` then achievements will be saved to disk every time an achievement is newly granted or revoked. Defaults to `false`.

#### `{ game_id: achievement }`: achievements.keyedAchievements

A table containing all defined achievements indexed by their game ID string.

### Functions

#### achievements.initialize(`table`: _achievement_data_, `bool?`: _silent_)

Initializes the module with data about your game’s achievements in the [`achievementData`](#achievementdata) format specified above. This is required before calling other functions, such as `.grant()` or `.advance()`. Set `silent` to `true` to suppress the debug logs printed to the console.

#### achievements.grant(`string`: _achievement_id_)

Grants the achievement `achievement_id` to the player. Attempting to grant a previously earned achievement does nothing. If your achievement has a `progressMax` field, use `achievements.advance()` or `achievements.advanceTo()` instead.

Returns `true` if the achievement was successfully granted, or `false` otherwise.

#### achievements.revoke(`string`: _achievement_id_)

Revokes the achievement `achievement_id` from the player. Attempting to revoke an unearned achievement does nothing. If your achievement has a `progressMax` field, use `achievements.advance()` or `achievements.advanceTo()` instead.

Returns `true` if the achievement was successfully revoked, or `false` otherwise.

#### achievements.advance(`string`: _achievement_id_, `int`: _advance_by_)

Increases or decreases the completion score for achievement `achievement_id` by `advance_by`. Attempting this on an achievement without `progressMax` set throws an error. If the achievement’s score reaches the max, the achievement will be granted. If it falls below the max, the achievement will be revoked.

Returns `true` on success, otherwise throws an error.

#### achievements.advanceTo(`string`: _achievement_id_, `int`: _advance_to_)

Sets the completion score for achievement `achievement_id` to the value `advance_to`. Attempting this on an achievement without `progressMax` set throws an error. If the achievement’s score reaches the max, the achievement will be granted. If it falls below the max, the achievement will be revoked.

Returns `true` on success, otherwise throws an error.

#### achievements.completionPercentage()

Returns the total weighted completion percentage in the range [0-1]. Granted achievements count for their full weight; progressive achievements count towards the total according to their weighted partial completion.

#### achievements.save()

Saves the player’s earned achievements as "Achievements.json" in your game’s data, and exports the updated achievement information to `/Shared`.

#### achievements.isGranted(`string`: _achievement_id_)

Returns `true` if the achievement has been earned by the player, or `false` otherwise.

#### achievements.getInfo(`string`: _achievement_id_)

Returns a `table` containing metadata associated with the achievement in the format specified in the [`achievementData` schema](#achievementdata) above.

Commit message:

[improve] add version number to each module in order to fine track code version when bundled in user libraries, along with required documentation, fixes #71

docs/achievements.md, after:

# Adding Achievements to Your Game

## The `achievements.lua` Module

This module is responsible for tracking and saving achievement progress for your game. It can be used as a standalone library, or in congruence with [toasts.lua](./toasts.md) and/or [viewer.lua](./viewer.md)

> NOTE: This is a reference implementation. You may use it as-is, or you may implement achievements in whatever manner you prefer as long as you save your data in `/Shared/Achievements/` according to the [schema](../achievements.schema.json).

## Getting Started

To import the main library, include `achievements.lua` in your project and import it in `main.lua`. This will create a global variable named `achievements` containing the module. Initialize the module with your achievement data (see [Configuring Achievements](#configuring-achievements)) before calling any of its other methods.

```lua
-- during setup
import "./path/to/achievements" -- don’t include ".lua" in your import statement
achievements.initialize(data) -- define your available achievements
```

You can then grant or update progress toward your achievements during gameplay.

```lua
-- during gameplay
achievements.grant("my_basic_achievement") -- grant or revoke achievements as you wish
achievements.advance("my_progress_achievement", 4) -- add 4 to your achievement’s progress, granting automagically if progress completes
```

Be sure to save your achievements to disk so the player’s progress persists. You can do this whenever you save your game, or any time you grant, advance, or revoke an achievement.

```lua
achievements.save() -- write your achievements to /Shared
```

If you prefer to autosave any time achievement data is updated, you can also set `achievements.forceSaveOnGrantOrRevoke` to `true` after initialization.

## Configuring Achievements

The most important part of configuring your achievements is properly constructing the achievement data blob and calling `achievements.initialize()` to properly set your game up. Calling `.initialize()` during your game’s setup will ensure that the library is ready for use from within your game. It will not overwrite or reset previously saved achievement data.

### Example

```lua
local data = {
    -- This example infers most of the game metadata from your game’s pdxinfo.
    iconPath = "images/achievements/game_icon", -- Update these paths to match your game’s file structure. See below for more details.
    cardPath = "images/achievements/game_card",
    achievements = {
        {
            -- these are the only required fields for a basic achievement.
            id = "my_achievement_1",
            name = "Achievement 1",
            description = "Achievement 1 Description",
        },
        {
            id = "my_achievement_2",
            name = "Achievement 2",
            description = "Achievement 2 Description",
            icon = "assets/achievements/icons/my_achievement_2_icon", -- Update this path to match your game’s file structure. See below for more details.
            iconLocked = "assets/achievements/icons/my_locked_icon_2"
        },
        {
            id = "my_progress_achievement",
            name = "My Progress Achievement",
            description = "My Progress Achievement description",
            progressMax = 350,
            progressIsPercentage = false
        },
        {
            id = "my_secret_achievement",
            name = "My Secret Achievement",
            description = "My Secret Achievement description",
            isSecret = true,
            scoreValue = 0 -- don’t count this achievement towards game completion
        },
        {
            -- continue defining achievements as much as you need
        }
    }
}

-- very important that you initialize the data blob before your game is set up.
achievements.initialize(data)
achievements.forceSaveOnGrantOrRevoke = true -- Defaults to false. Only set if you’d like the achievement data to be exported every time an achievement is granted or revoked.
```

### Schema

#### Achievements

| key            | type                    | description                                                                                                                                         |
| -------------- | ----------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `achievements` | `list: AchievementData` | List of configured achievements for your game. **Required.**                                                                                        |
| `gameID`       | `string?`               | Bundle identifier for your game. Defaults to `bundleID` from your `pdxinfo`.                                                                        |
| `name`         | `string?`               | Nicely formatted name for your game. Defaults to `name` from your `pdxinfo`.                                                                        |
| `author`       | `string?`               | Nicely formatted author for your game. Defaults to `author` from your `pdxinfo`.                                                                    |
| `description`  | `string?`               | Short description about your game. Defaults to `description` from your `pdxinfo`.                                                                   |
| `version`      | `string?`               | Nicely formatted version string for your game. Defaults to `version` from your `pdxinfo`.                                                           |
| `iconPath`     | `string?`               | Path to the 32x32 `.png` icon to use as your game’s icon. Recommended to use your `icon.png` from your game metadata. Defaults to `nil`.            |
| `cardPath`     | `string?`               | Path to the 380x90 `.png` art to use as your game’s card art. Recommended to use your wide Catalog image asset (if you have it). Defaults to `nil`. |

#### AchievementData

| key                    | type      | description                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| ---------------------- | --------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `id`                   | `string`  | Uniquely identifies the achievement. **Required.**                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `name`                 | `string`  | Nicely formatted name for the achievement. Shown to the player. **Required.**                                                                                                                                               |
| `description`          | `string`  | Nicely formatted description for the achievement. Shown to the player. **Required.**                                                                                                                                        |
| `descriptionLocked`    | `string?` | Nicely formatted description for the achievement shown until it is granted. Shown to the player. Defaults to `nil`. When left `nil`, the value provided for `description` will be shown in both locked and unlocked states. |
| `isSecret`             | `bool?`   | Determines if the achievement should be hidden until granted. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                          |
| `icon`                 | `string?` | Path to the achievement’s 32x32 `.png` icon. The root folder is where "main.lua" is. Defaults to `nil`.                                                                                                                     |
| `iconLocked`           | `string?` | Path to the achievement’s 32x32 `.png` icon that’s shown until the achievement is granted. Defaults to `nil`.                                                                                                               |
| `progressMax`          | `number?` | If this achievement is progression based, this defines the limit at which the achievement will be automatically granted. Defaults to `nil`.                                                                                 |
| `progress`             | `number?` | How much progress has been made towards `progressMax`. Not necessary to set this by hand; instead, use `advance` or `advanceTo`. Defaults to `0`.                                                                           |
| `progressIsPercentage` | `bool?`   | Indicates whether this progress achievement represents a percentage. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                   |
| `scoreValue`           | `number?` | How much weight this achievement carries towards 100% game completion. Defaults to `1`. Can be set to `0` to make the achievement optional.                                                                                 |

## API Reference

### Properties

#### `string` achievements.specVersion

Same as achievements.schema.json→specVersion.

#### `string` achievements.versionNumber

Version number of this module, different from specVersion as it tracks achievements.schema.json→specVersion.

#### `bool` achievements.forceSaveOnGrantOrRevoke

If this flag is set to `true` then achievements will be saved to disk every time an achievement is newly granted or revoked. Defaults to `false`.

#### `{ game_id: achievement }`: achievements.keyedAchievements

A table containing all defined achievements indexed by their game ID string.

### Functions

#### achievements.initialize(`table`: _achievement_data_, `bool?`: _silent_)

Initializes the module with data about your game’s achievements in the [`achievementData`](#achievementdata) format specified above. This is required before calling other functions, such as `.grant()` or `.advance()`. Set `silent` to `true` to suppress the debug logs printed to the console.

#### achievements.grant(`string`: _achievement_id_)

Grants the achievement `achievement_id` to the player. Attempting to grant a previously earned achievement does nothing. If your achievement has a `progressMax` field, use `achievements.advance()` or `achievements.advanceTo()` instead.

Returns `true` if the achievement was successfully granted, or `false` otherwise.

#### achievements.revoke(`string`: _achievement_id_)

Revokes the achievement `achievement_id` from the player. Attempting to revoke an unearned achievement does nothing. If your achievement has a `progressMax` field, use `achievements.advance()` or `achievements.advanceTo()` instead.

Returns `true` if the achievement was successfully revoked, or `false` otherwise.

#### achievements.advance(`string`: _achievement_id_, `int`: _advance_by_)

Increases or decreases the completion score for achievement `achievement_id` by `advance_by`. Attempting this on an achievement without `progressMax` set throws an error. If the achievement’s score reaches the max, the achievement will be granted. If it falls below the max, the achievement will be revoked.

Returns `true` on success, otherwise throws an error.

#### achievements.advanceTo(`string`: _achievement_id_, `int`: _advance_to_)

Sets the completion score for achievement `achievement_id` to the value `advance_to`. Attempting this on an achievement without `progressMax` set throws an error. If the achievement’s score reaches the max, the achievement will be granted. If it falls below the max, the achievement will be revoked.

Returns `true` on success, otherwise throws an error.

#### achievements.completionPercentage()

Returns the total weighted completion percentage in the range [0-1]. Granted achievements count for their full weight; progressive achievements count towards the total according to their weighted partial completion.

#### achievements.save()

Saves the player’s earned achievements as "Achievements.json" in your game’s data, and exports the updated achievement information to `/Shared`.

#### achievements.isGranted(`string`: _achievement_id_)

Returns `true` if the achievement has been earned by the player, or `false` otherwise.

#### achievements.getInfo(`string`: _achievement_id_)

Returns a `table` containing metadata associated with the achievement in the format specified in the [`achievementData` schema](#achievementdata) above.
