docs/viewer.md, before:

# Showing an In-Game Achievements Viewer

## The `viewer.lua` Module

The viewer module presents all the achievements in your game to the player. When launched, the viewer appears as a modal overlay and temporarily blocks updates and input to your game. Players can scroll through a list of all available achievements, see which they’ve earned or made progress towards, and exit when finished to return to your game.

> NOTE: This is a reference implementation, and its use is entirely optional. You’re welcome to present achievements to players in whatever manner is most appropriate for your game.

## Sample Usage

Add `viewer.lua` to your project and import it _after_ `achievements.lua`. All its methods will be available under the global `achievements.viewer` namespace.

```lua
-- setup
import "/path/to/achievements"
import "/path/to/viewer"
```

When you’re ready to present the viewer, such as in response to a menu selection:

```lua
achievements.viewer.launch()
```

> NOTE:
> To use the viewer, ensure all of the [required assets](../achievements/assets) are included in the "achievements/assets" directory of your game. Many of these assets are also used by `toasts.lua`. You can avoid a delay when launching the viewer by calling `achievements.viewer.initialize()` to preload the assets.

## Configuration

You can override the default configuration to adjust the appearance and behavior of the in-game viewer. See the schema below for a full list of properties you can change.

### Example

In this example, we’ll override the defaults to tweak the appearance of the viewer.

```lua
-- initialize, optionally providing a table with config values you wish to override
achievements.viewer.initialize({
   numDescriptionLines = 1, -- for shorter descriptions
   summaryMode = "percent", -- summarize progress as completion percentage
   -- ...
})

-- in response to some action, such as selecting a menu option
achievements.viewer.launch()
```

### Schema

| key                    | type                           | description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `assetPath`            | `string`                       | The path to the image/sound/font [assets](../achievements/assets) required by the module. Defaults to `"achievements/assets"`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `numDescriptionLines`  | `int`                          | The number of lines of the achievement description to display. Defaults to `2`. Reduce to `1` if all your descriptions are short; or increase to `3` if some of your descriptions are long. Set to `0` to hide descriptions entirely.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `fadeColor`            | `playdate.graphics.color`      | The color to fade the background when the viewer launches. You can set this to `kColorWhite` if your game is mostly dark, or `kColorClear` to prevent a background fade. Defaults to `kColorBlack`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `enableAboutScreen`    | `bool`                         | When `true` the player will have the option to display an about screen with a QR code to learn more about Playdate Achievements. Defaults to `true`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `invertCards`          | `bool`                         | When `true` the viewer appearance is inverted to display white headers and black cards. (Achievement icons will display normally and won’t be inverted.) Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `soundVolume`          | `float`                        | The default audio volume for the viewer’s sound effects, in the range [0-1]. You can call `achievements.viewer.setSoundVolume()` later to change this (for example, if the player changes an in-game volume setting.) Defaults to `1`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `sortOrder`            | `default/recent/progress/name` | The default sort order for the achievements, which may be changed by the player via the d-pad. Must be one of:<br><br>**`default`**: Display in the order the achievements are defined in the game’s `achievementData`.<br><br>**`recent`**: Show the most recently earned achievements first, followed by locked achievements in the order they are defined.<br><br>**`progress`**: Show locked in-progress achievements first beginning with the closest to completion; then other locked achievements in definition order; then granted achievements in definition order.<br><br>**`name`**: Sort alphabetically by achievement name.<br><br>Defaults to `default`. |
| `summaryMode`          | `count/percent/score/none`     | Determines how achievements are summarized in the header. Must be one of:<br><br>**`count`**: Display the number of unlocked achievements out of the total number (including optional ones), e.g. "3/12".<br><br>**`percent`**: Display a percentage completion, weighted by the `scoreValue` for each achievement, e.g. "25%".<br><br>**`score`**: Display the raw `scoreValue` earned out of the possible total, e.g. 60/100.<br><br>**`none`**: Omit the summary<br><br>Defaults to `count`.                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `disableBackground`    | `bool`                         | Set this to `true` to prevent a static captured background image of your game from appearing behind the viewer. You are responsible for setting an `updateFunction` and drawing something behind the viewer yourself.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `gameData`             | `bool`                         | The achievement data to display. Normally you’ll set this to `nil` (or omit it) so the module will retrieve your current game’s data directly from the achievements library. If you want to display toasts for _another_ game’s achievements, obtain their `gameData` using the `crossgame` module and provide it here. Defaults to `nil`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `updateFunction`       | `function(fade)`               | If provided, this function will be called every frame in which the viewer is visible and before the viewer itself draws. The `fade` parameter is an `int` in the range [0-1] that begins at 0, increases to 1 as the viewer fades in, remains 1 while displayed, and decreases to 0 again as it fades out.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `returnToGameFunction` | `function()`                   | If provided, this function will be called when the viewewr transfers control back to your game.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

## API Reference

### Functions

#### achievements.viewer.initialize(`table?`: _config_)

Initializes the viewer module and preloads the image and sound assets it requires. The optional `config` table lets you override any of the default values according to the [configuration schema](#schema) above.

Returns `true` when initialization succeeds, or `false` otherwise.

> NOTE: Calling `initialize` is not required, however doing so will avoid a delay when launching the viewer for the first time by preloading all required assets.

#### achievements.viewer.launch(`table?`: _config_)

Displays the achievements viewer as a modal overlay with the initialized configuration or optional `config` data. This will temporarily override your `playdate.update` function, blocking execution of your game, as well as any inputs. Execution will be returned to your game when the player backs out of the viewer with the **B** button.

You have the option to provide an `updateFunction` in order to continue drawing behind the viewer or querying input events, as well as a `returnToGameFunction` which will be called when execution is returned to your game.

Returns `true` if the viewer was successfully launched, or `false` otherwise.

> NOTE: **Launch Delay:** The first time you call `launch()` there will be a short delay as the required assets are loaded. To avoid this delay, call `achievements.viewer.initialize()` during setup, with optional `config` parameters.

> NOTE: **Device State:** The viewer will backup and restore as much device state as possible to avoid affecting your game, including refresh rate, display scale, and input handlers. If you find that launching the viewer has a negative effect on your game, consider restoring any essential state by providing a `returnToGameFunction` in your config. For example, you may need to explicitly pause any active timers and then unpause them again when control returns to your game.

> NOTE: **System Menu:** Launching the viewer does not affect the Playdate system menu, so any menu items you’ve configured will remain available to the player while the viewer is displayed. You can change the menu items available before launching the viewer and restore them in your `returnToGameFunction`. Call `achievements.viewer.forceExit` to dismiss the viewer as needed when the player selects an item from the system menu.

#### achievements.viewer.forceExit()

Forcibly dismisses the viewer, which will fade out and return execution to your game. Call this function when some other interrupt occurs, such as when the player selects an item from the system menu. Calling when the viewer is not displayed has no effect.

#### achievements.viewer.hasLaunched()

Returns `true` if the viewer is currently displayed, or `false` otherwise.

#### achievements.viewer.setVolume(`float`: _level_)

Sets the volume of viewer sound effects to the specified `level` in the range [0-1].

#### achievements.viewer.getCache()

You shouldn’t need to call this function. It is provided to enable sharing of data between the `toasts` and `viewer` modules.

Commit message:

[improve] add version number to each module in order to fine track code version when bundled in user libraries, along with required documentation, fixes #71

docs/viewer.md, after:

# Showing an In-Game Achievements Viewer

## The `viewer.lua` Module

The viewer module presents all the achievements in your game to the player. When launched, the viewer appears as a modal overlay and temporarily blocks updates and input to your game. Players can scroll through a list of all available achievements, see which they’ve earned or made progress towards, and exit when finished to return to your game.

> NOTE: This is a reference implementation, and its use is entirely optional. You’re welcome to present achievements to players in whatever manner is most appropriate for your game.

## Sample Usage

Add `viewer.lua` to your project and import it _after_ `achievements.lua`. All its methods will be available under the global `achievements.viewer` namespace.

```lua
-- setup
import "/path/to/achievements"
import "/path/to/viewer"
```

When you’re ready to present the viewer, such as in response to a menu selection:

```lua
achievements.viewer.launch()
```

> NOTE:
> To use the viewer, ensure all of the [required assets](../achievements/assets) are included in the "achievements/assets" directory of your game. Many of these assets are also used by `toasts.lua`. You can avoid a delay when launching the viewer by calling `achievements.viewer.initialize()` to preload the assets.

## Configuration

You can override the default configuration to adjust the appearance and behavior of the in-game viewer. See the schema below for a full list of properties you can change.

### Example

In this example, we’ll override the defaults to tweak the appearance of the viewer.

```lua
-- initialize, optionally providing a table with config values you wish to override
achievements.viewer.initialize({
   numDescriptionLines = 1, -- for shorter descriptions
   summaryMode = "percent", -- summarize progress as completion percentage
   -- ...
})

-- in response to some action, such as selecting a menu option
achievements.viewer.launch()
```

### Schema

| key                    | type                           | description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `assetPath`            | `string`                       | The path to the image/sound/font [assets](../achievements/assets) required by the module. Defaults to `"achievements/assets"`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `numDescriptionLines`  | `int`                          | The number of lines of the achievement description to display. Defaults to `2`. Reduce to `1` if all your descriptions are short; or increase to `3` if some of your descriptions are long. Set to `0` to hide descriptions entirely.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `fadeColor`            | `playdate.graphics.color`      | The color to fade the background when the viewer launches. You can set this to `kColorWhite` if your game is mostly dark, or `kColorClear` to prevent a background fade. Defaults to `kColorBlack`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `enableAboutScreen`    | `bool`                         | When `true` the player will have the option to display an about screen with a QR code to learn more about Playdate Achievements. Defaults to `true`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `invertCards`          | `bool`                         | When `true` the viewer appearance is inverted to display white headers and black cards. (Achievement icons will display normally and won’t be inverted.) Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `soundVolume`          | `float`                        | The default audio volume for the viewer’s sound effects, in the range [0-1]. You can call `achievements.viewer.setSoundVolume()` later to change this (for example, if the player changes an in-game volume setting.) Defaults to `1`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `sortOrder`            | `default/recent/progress/name` | The default sort order for the achievements, which may be changed by the player via the d-pad. Must be one of:<br><br>**`default`**: Display in the order the achievements are defined in the game’s `achievementData`.<br><br>**`recent`**: Show the most recently earned achievements first, followed by locked achievements in the order they are defined.<br><br>**`progress`**: Show locked in-progress achievements first beginning with the closest to completion; then other locked achievements in definition order; then granted achievements in definition order.<br><br>**`name`**: Sort alphabetically by achievement name.<br><br>Defaults to `default`. |
| `summaryMode`          | `count/percent/score/none`     | Determines how achievements are summarized in the header. Must be one of:<br><br>**`count`**: Display the number of unlocked achievements out of the total number (including optional ones), e.g. "3/12".<br><br>**`percent`**: Display a percentage completion, weighted by the `scoreValue` for each achievement, e.g. "25%".<br><br>**`score`**: Display the raw `scoreValue` earned out of the possible total, e.g. 60/100.<br><br>**`none`**: Omit the summary<br><br>Defaults to `count`.                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `disableBackground`    | `bool`                         | Set this to `true` to prevent a static captured background image of your game from appearing behind the viewer. You are responsible for setting an `updateFunction` and drawing something behind the viewer yourself.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `gameData`             | `bool`                         | The achievement data to display. Normally you’ll set this to `nil` (or omit it) so the module will retrieve your current game’s data directly from the achievements library. If you want to display toasts for _another_ game’s achievements, obtain their `gameData` using the `crossgame` module and provide it here. Defaults to `nil`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `updateFunction`       | `function(fade)`               | If provided, this function will be called every frame in which the viewer is visible and before the viewer itself draws. The `fade` parameter is an `int` in the range [0-1] that begins at 0, increases to 1 as the viewer fades in, remains 1 while displayed, and decreases to 0 again as it fades out.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `returnToGameFunction` | `function()`                   | If provided, this function will be called when the viewewr transfers control back to your game.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

## API Reference

### Properties

#### `string` achievements.viewer.versionNumber

Version number of this module.

### Functions

#### achievements.viewer.initialize(`table?`: _config_)

Initializes the viewer module and preloads the image and sound assets it requires. The optional `config` table lets you override any of the default values according to the [configuration schema](#schema) above.

Returns `true` when initialization succeeds, or `false` otherwise.

> NOTE: Calling `initialize` is not required, however doing so will avoid a delay when launching the viewer for the first time by preloading all required assets.

#### achievements.viewer.launch(`table?`: _config_)

Displays the achievements viewer as a modal overlay with the initialized configuration or optional `config` data. This will temporarily override your `playdate.update` function, blocking execution of your game, as well as any inputs. Execution will be returned to your game when the player backs out of the viewer with the **B** button.

You have the option to provide an `updateFunction` in order to continue drawing behind the viewer or querying input events, as well as a `returnToGameFunction` which will be called when execution is returned to your game.

Returns `true` if the viewer was successfully launched, or `false` otherwise.

> NOTE: **Launch Delay:** The first time you call `launch()` there will be a short delay as the required assets are loaded. To avoid this delay, call `achievements.viewer.initialize()` during setup, with optional `config` parameters.

> NOTE: **Device State:** The viewer will backup and restore as much device state as possible to avoid affecting your game, including refresh rate, display scale, and input handlers. If you find that launching the viewer has a negative effect on your game, consider restoring any essential state by providing a `returnToGameFunction` in your config. For example, you may need to explicitly pause any active timers and then unpause them again when control returns to your game.

> NOTE: **System Menu:** Launching the viewer does not affect the Playdate system menu, so any menu items you’ve configured will remain available to the player while the viewer is displayed. You can change the menu items available before launching the viewer and restore them in your `returnToGameFunction`. Call `achievements.viewer.forceExit` to dismiss the viewer as needed when the player selects an item from the system menu.

#### achievements.viewer.forceExit()

Forcibly dismisses the viewer, which will fade out and return execution to your game. Call this function when some other interrupt occurs, such as when the player selects an item from the system menu. Calling when the viewer is not displayed has no effect.

#### achievements.viewer.hasLaunched()

Returns `true` if the viewer is currently displayed, or `false` otherwise.

#### achievements.viewer.setVolume(`float`: _level_)

Sets the volume of viewer sound effects to the specified `level` in the range [0-1].

#### achievements.viewer.getCache()

You shouldn’t need to call this function. It is provided to enable sharing of data between the `toasts` and `viewer` modules.
